Write extensive documentation on the crate and the macro (#20)
meilisearch/deserr: README.md

## Introduction

Deserr is a crate for deserializing data, with the ability to return
custom, type-specific errors upon failure. It was also designed with

> user-facing API in mind and thus provides better default than serde for

Reviewer: - `user-facing APIs`
- `defaults`

can be thrown by every single route of meilisearch.

#### With deserr

```json
{
  "message": "Invalid value at `.typoTolerance.minWordSizeForTypos.oneTypo`: value: `1000` is too large to be deserialized, maximum value authorized is `255`",
  "code": "invalid_settings_typo_tolerance",
  "type": "invalid_request",
  "link": "https://docs.meilisearch.com/errors#invalid-settings-typo-tolerance"
}
```

##### The message

> Invalid value at `.typoTolerance.minWordSizeForTypos.oneTypo`: value: `1000` is too large to be deserialized, maximum value authorized is `255`

- We get a more human-readable location; `.typoTolerance.minWordSizeForTypos.oneTypo`. It gives us the faulty field.
- We also get a non-confusing and helpful message this time; it explicitly tells us that the maximum value authorized is `255`.

##### The rest of the payload

Since deserr called one of our functions in the process, we were able to use a custom error code + link to redirect
our user to the documentation specific to this feature and this field.

#### More possibilities with deserr that were impossible with serde

##### Adding constraints on multiples fields

> In meilisearch, there is another constraint on this `minWordSizeForTypos`, the `twoTypo` field **must be** greater than

Reviewer 2: Maybe you could add the version of Meilisearch to avoid having to update this line if Meilisearch changes its design.

```suggestion
In Meilisearch, there is another constraint on this `minWordSizeForTypos`, the `twoTypo` field **must be** greater than
```

Not sure my suggestion of capitalizing meilisearch should be taken into account. If it does, it should be changed everywhere.

Author: Done, thanks!

the `oneType` field.

Serde doesn't provide any feature to do that. You could write your own implementation of `Deserialize` for the
entire sub-object `minWordSizeForTypos`, but that's generally hard, and we tend to avoid doing it.

> Thus, that's the kind of thing you're going to check by hand in your code later on. This is error-prone and

Reviewer: Could we add that writing your own `serde::Deserialize` implementation it __still__ does not give you full control over the returned error type?

It's possible to provide your own function when a field is missing.

```rust,ignore
pub fn missing_field<E: DeserializeError>(field: &str, location: ValuePointerRef) -> E {
    todo!()
}
```

At meilisearch, we use this function to specify a custom error code, but we keep the default error message which is pretty accurate.

##### When an unknown field is encountered

It's possible to provide your own function when a field is missing.

```rust,ignore
fn unknown_field<E: DeserializeError>(
    field: &str,
    accepted: &[&str],
    location: ValuePointerRef,
) -> E {
    todo!()
}
```

Here is a few ideas we have or would like to implement at meilisearch;
- In the case of a resource you can `PUT` with some fields, but can't `PATCH` all its fields. We can throw a special `immutable field x` error instead of an `unknown field x`.
- Detecting when you use the field name of an alternative; for example, we use `q` to make a `query` while some Meilisearch alternatives use `query`.
  We could help our users with a `did you mean` message.
- Trying to guess what the user was trying to say by computing the [levenstein distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Levenshtein_distance)

>   between what the user typed and what is accepted to provide a `did you mean` message. That's a convenient utility against typos.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  between what the user typed and what is accepted to provide a `did you mean?` message that attempts to correct typos.
```

Qualifying the `did you mean?` messages makes them unambiguous in my mind :-)

> // `T` must implements `DeserializeFromValue`.

Reviewer: ```
`T` must implement
```

```

## Why would I use it

The main place where you should use deserr is on your user-facing API,
especially if it's supposed to be read by a human.

> Since deserr gives you full control over your error types, you can incredibly improve

Reviewer: `you can improve the quality of your error messages`

the quality of your error messages.

> Here is a little preview of what you can do with deserr;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here is a little preview of what you can do with deserr:
```

> ------

Reviewer 3: The separator is a bit surprising given this is an example of the concepts laid out in the above paragraph. I would remove it.

```suggestion
```

Let's say I sent this payload to update my [meilisearch](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/settings.html#settings) settings:
```json
{
  "filterableAttributes": ["doggo.age", "catto.age"],
  "sortableAttributes": ["uploaded_at"],
  "typoTolerance": {
    "minWordSizeForTypos": {
      "oneTypo": 1000, "twoTypo": 80
    },
    "enabled": true
  },
  "displayedAttributes": ["*"],
  "searchableAttributes": ["doggo.name", "catto.name"]
}
```

#### With serde

With serde, we don't have much customization; this is the typical kind of message we would get in return:

```json
{
  "message": "Json deserialize error: invalid value: integer `1000`, expected u8 at line 6 column 21",
  "code": "bad_request",
  "type": "invalid_request",
  "link": "https://docs.meilisearch.com/errors#bad_request"
}
```

> ##### The message

Reviewer: I really like this approach for introducing deserr

> Json deserialize error: invalid value: integer `1000`, expected u8 at line 6 column 21

- The message uses the word `u8`, which definitely won't help a user who doesn't know rust or is unfamiliar with types.
- The location is provided in terms of lines and columns. While this is generally good, when most of your users

>   will read this message in their terminal, it actually doesn't help much.

Reviewer: - `when most of your users read this`
- `it doesn't actually help much`

#### The rest of the payload

> Since serde returned this error and we don't know what happened or on which field it happened, the best we

Reviewer: Nothing wrong with this sentence, but here's a suggestion, which you can use if you like:

> Since serde returned this error, we cannot know what happened or on which field it happened. Thus, the best we can do is generate a code ...

can do is generate a code `bad_request` that is common for our whole API. We then use this code to generate

> a link to our documentation to help our users. But how do you want to help anyone with an error

Reviewer: Another optional suggestion:

> But such a generic link does not help our users because it can be thrown by every single route of meilisearch

##### The message

> Invalid value at `.typoTolerance.minWordSizeForTypos.oneTypo`: value: `1000` is too large to be deserialized, maximum value authorized is `255`

- We get a more human-readable location; `.typoTolerance.minWordSizeForTypos.oneTypo`. It gives us the faulty field.
- We also get a non-confusing and helpful message this time; it explicitly tells us that the maximum value authorized is `255`.

##### The rest of the payload

Since deserr called one of our functions in the process, we were able to use a custom error code + link to redirect
our user to the documentation specific to this feature and this field.

#### More possibilities with deserr that were impossible with serde

##### Adding constraints on multiples fields

In meilisearch, there is another constraint on this `minWordSizeForTypos`, the `twoTypo` field **must be** greater than
the `oneType` field.

Serde doesn't provide any feature to do that. You could write your own implementation of `Deserialize` for the
entire sub-object `minWordSizeForTypos`, but that's generally hard, and we tend to avoid doing it.
Thus, that's the kind of thing you're going to check by hand in your code later on. Which may bring

> inconsistencies between most of the deserialization error messages and your error message.

Reviewer: I would also maybe add:
> ... hand in your code later on. This is error-prone and may bring inconsistencies ...

With deserr, we provide attributes that allow you to validate your structure once it's deserialized.

##### When a field is missing

It's possible to provide your own function when a field is missing.

> ```rust,ignore

Reviewer: I wonder whether we should write it as:
```rust
pub fn missing_field(field: &str, location: ValuePointerRef) -> MyError {
    todo!()
}
```
To make clear that you're not limited to the functions exposed by `DeserializeError`

Reviewer: This could, however, confuse users when they implement it like this and then get a compiler error because they didn't use the `error` attribute in the derive macro.
So I kind of changed my mind now, the current version is also good.

Author: I think that's the kind of thing we should show in the `examples` directory but not directly in the README.
And for the README I would prefer if we keep it generic and easy to copy-paste :thinking:

pub fn missing_field<E: DeserializeError>(field: &str, location: ValuePointerRef) -> E {
    todo!()
}
```

At meilisearch, we use this function to specify a custom error code, but we keep the default error message which is pretty accurate.

##### When an unknown field is encountered

It's possible to provide your own function when a field is missing.

```rust,ignore
fn unknown_field<E: DeserializeError>(
    field: &str,
    accepted: &[&str],
    location: ValuePointerRef,
) -> E {
    todo!()
}
```

Here is a few ideas we have or would like to implement at meilisearch;

> - Detecting when you try to `PATCH` a field that doesn't exists to throw a special `immutable field x` error instead of an `unknown field x`

Reviewer 3: This is unclear to me.

Do you mean: "detecting when you try to `PATCH` a field whose value is "virtual" (ie, computed at runtime rather than stored) to throw a special `immutable field x` error instead of the regular `unknown field x` error."

Or something?

Author: Oh yeah, I'm thinking about a field that is present during a `POST`, but not present during a `PATCH` because you can't update it (like we have for our API keys).
But yeah, it's not super clear :thinking:

> - Detecting when you use the field name of a competitor; for example, we use `q` to make a `query` while some of our competitors use `query`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Detecting when you use the field name of an alternative; for example, we use `q` to make a `query` while some Meilisearch alternatives use `query`.
```

>   We could help our users with a `did you mean` message.

Reviewer 3: isn't that sentence somewhat redundant with the following one?

Author: Oh yeah, look like I forgot the end of the sentence; I wanted to talk about using the Levenshtein distance between all the accepted field and the unknown field.
Thanks for noticing!

Author: Ah, it looks like I misread your comment initially.

Both sentences can give you a nice « did you mean » message. But they really don't work the same way; thus, I think it's still nice to specify the two.

Reviewer 3: OK this is clearer to me.

I think I have a suggestion

```suggestion
  We could help our users with a `did you mean?` message that corrects the field to its proper name in Meilisearch.
```

Author: ah yes that’s better thanks!

- Trying to guess what the user was trying to say by computing the [levenstein distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Levenshtein_distance)
  between what the user typed and what is accepted to provide a `did you mean` message. That's a convenient utility against typos.

> ##### When multiples error are encountered

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### When multiple errors are encountered
```

> deserr lets you accumulate multiple errors with its `MergeWithError` trait while trying to deserialize the value into your type.

Reviewer: What's our policy regarding capitalisation? I think I prefer either:
> Deserr lets you ...

Or:
> `deserr` lets you

> This is a good way to improve your user experience by reducing the number of interactions

Reviewer: > interactions a user needs to have to fix an invalid payload

a user needs to do before having a valid payload.

-----------

The main parts of deserr are:

> 1. [`DeserializeFromValue<E>`] is the main trait for deserialization

Reviewer: Can we remove the square brackets?

Reviewer: Also: is the trait still called `DeserializeFromValue`? It is fine if it is, just checking that the readme is up to date :)

> 2. [`IntoValue`] and [`Value`] describes the shape that the parsed serialized data must have

Reviewer: > describe

haha
(it is plural: both `IntoValue` and `Value`)

}
```

### Supported features

#### `rename_all`

Rename all the fields of the struct according to the given case convention.
The possible values are `lowercase`, `camelCase`.

> If you need more case conventions, please open an issue; adding more is trivial..

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you need more case conventions, please open an issue; adding more is trivial.
```

or

```suggestion
If you need more case conventions, please open an issue; adding more is trivial...
```

```rust
use deserr::{DeserializeFromValue, deserialize};
use deserr::serde_json::JsonError;
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
#[deserr(rename_all = camelCase)]
struct Search {
    query: String,
    attributes_to_retrieve: Vec<String>,
}

let data = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "attributesToRetrieve": ["age", "name"] }),
)
.unwrap();

assert_eq!(data, Search {
    query: String::from("doggo"),
    attributes_to_retrieve: vec![String::from("age"), String::from("name")],
});
```

#### `deny_unknown_fields`

Throw an error when encountering unknown fields.
When this attribute is absent, unknown fields are ignored by default.

```rust
use deserr::{DeserializeFromValue, deserialize};
use deserr::serde_json::JsonError;
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug)]
#[deserr(deny_unknown_fields)]
struct Search {
    query: String,
}

let err = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "doggo": "bork" }),
)
.unwrap_err();

> assert_eq!(err.to_string(), "Json deserialize error: unknown field `doggo`, expected one of `query` at ``.");

Reviewer: I think this error message is outdated?

Author: Not yet, because I didn't merge the meilisearch json error in deserr.
But I'll do it before the next release and update the README with the new messages :+1:

```rust
use deserr::{DeserializeFromValue, deserialize, ErrorKind, DeserializeError, ValuePointerRef, take_result_content};
use deserr::serde_json::JsonError;
use std::convert::Infallible;
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug)]
#[deserr(deny_unknown_fields = unknown_fields_search)]
struct Search {
    query: String,
}

fn unknown_fields_search<E: DeserializeError>(
    field: &str,
    accepted: &[&str],
    location: ValuePointerRef,
) -> E {
    match field {
        "doggo" => take_result_content(E::error::<Infallible>(
                None,
                ErrorKind::Unexpected {
                    msg: String::from("can I pet the doggo? uwu")
                },
                location,
            )),
        _ => take_result_content(E::error::<Infallible>(
            None,
            deserr::ErrorKind::UnknownKey { key: field, accepted },
            location,
        )),
    }
}

let err = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "doggo": "bork" }),
)
.unwrap_err();

assert_eq!(err.to_string(), "can I pet the doggo? uwu at ``.");

let err = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(

>     json!({ "query": "doggo", "catto": "jorts" }),

Reviewer: awww Jorts!!! ❤️ a working class icon ❤️

##### It can be used as a container attribute

```rust
use deserr::{DeserializeFromValue, deserialize};
use deserr::serde_json::JsonError;
use serde_json::json;
use std::convert::Infallible;
use std::str::FromStr;

#[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
#[deserr(from(&String) = FromStr::from_str -> Infallible)]
enum Wildcard {
    Wildcard,
    Value(String),
}

impl FromStr for Wildcard {
    type Err = Infallible;

    fn from_str(s: &str) -> Result<Self, Self::Err> {
        Ok(match s {
            "*" => Wildcard::Wildcard,
            s => Wildcard::Value(s.to_string()),
        })
    }
}

let data = deserialize::<Wildcard, _, JsonError>(
    json!("doggo"),
)
.unwrap();
assert_eq!(data, Wildcard::Value(String::from("doggo")));

let data = deserialize::<Wildcard, _, JsonError>(
    json!("*"),
)
.unwrap();
assert_eq!(data, Wildcard::Wildcard);
```

##### Or as a field attribute

```rust
use deserr::{DeserializeFromValue, deserialize};
use deserr::serde_json::JsonError;
use serde_json::json;
use std::convert::Infallible;
use std::str::FromStr;
use std::num::ParseIntError;

#[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
struct Search {
    query: String,

>     #[deserr(from(&String) = FromStr::from_str -> ParseIntError)]

Reviewer: Is this going to work out-of-the-box if a user copy/pastes this? i.e. did we implement `MergeWithError<ParseIntError>` for `JsonError`?

Author: Yeah, I implemented this as an « easy default » for everyone;
```rust
impl<E: std::error::Error> MergeWithError<E> for JsonError {
    fn merge(self_: Option<Self>, other: E, merge_location: ValuePointerRef) -> Result<Self, Self> {
        JsonError::error::<Infallible>(
            self_,
            ErrorKind::Unexpected {
                msg: other.to_string(),
            },
            merge_location,
        )
    }
}
```

I can already see a lot of issues arising from this implementation, but I think deserr encourages you to create your own error type and just push everything you don't want to handle in our own error type.
Thus it's ok-ish to me :thinking:

    limit: usize,

}

let data = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "limit": "12" }),
)
.unwrap();
assert_eq!(data, Search { query: String::from("doggo"), limit: 12 });

let error = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "limit": 12 }),
)
.unwrap_err();
assert_eq!(error.to_string(), "invalid type: Integer `12`, expected a String at `.limit`.");
```

#### `validate`

Validate a structure **after** it has been deserialized.
This is typically useful when your validation logic needs to take multiple fields into account.

```rust
use deserr::{DeserializeFromValue, DeserializeError, ErrorKind, ValuePointerRef, deserialize};
use deserr::serde_json::JsonError;
use serde_json::json;
use std::convert::Infallible;

#[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]

> #[deserr(validate = validate_range -> __Deserr_E)]

Reviewer 3: I feel like we need a paragraph somewhere close by explaining what `__Deserr_E` might be as this is a bit confusing for me right now

Reviewer: agreed :)

struct Range {
    min: u8,
    max: u8,
}

fn validate_range<E: DeserializeError>(
    range: Range,
    location: ValuePointerRef,
) -> Result<Range, E> {
    if range.min > range.max {
        Err(deserr::take_result_content(E::error::<Infallible>(
            None,
            ErrorKind::Unexpected {
                msg: format!(
                    "`max` (`{}`) should be greater than `min` (`{}`)",
                    range.max, range.min
                ),
            },
            location,
        )))
    } else {
        Ok(range)
    }
}

let data = deserialize::<Range, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "min": 2, "max": 4 }),
)
.unwrap();
assert_eq!(data, Range { min: 2, max: 4 });

let error = deserialize::<Range, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "min": 4, "max": 2 }),
)
.unwrap_err();
assert_eq!(error.to_string(), "`max` (`2`) should be greater than `min` (`4`) at ``.");
```

#### `default`

Allows you to specify a default value for a field.

> Note that, by default, `Option` doesn't automatically use this attribute, as it is the case with serde.

Reviewer 3: The sentence is a bit unclear to me: is deserr's behavior like or unlike serde's?

```suggestion
Note that, unlike serde, by default, `Option` doesn't automatically use this attribute.
```

or

```suggestion
Note that, like serde, by default, `Option` doesn't automatically use this attribute.
```

> Here you need to explicitly define whether your type can get a default value.

Reviewer 3: If this is different from serde, can we provide a rationale as to why?

Reviewer: I kind of forgot the exact rationale. But I think there were two reasons:
1. Simplify the `DeserializeFromValue` trait, so that it doesn't have to tell what a type should deserialise to when the field is missing from the payload.
2. Make it so that optional fields can also be mandatory easily.

But also I think we found it better to always be explicit about it, so it is also a question of preference.

Author: It's kinda a question of preference, but the :two: is quite important to me. I really think Serde is _not_ helping with this behaviour.

Reviewer 3: I think it's OK to have this coming down to preference, but I also think parts of the rationale (reasons (1) and (2)) could be provided to users :-)

```rust
use deserr::{DeserializeFromValue, deserialize};
use deserr::serde_json::JsonError;
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
struct Search {
    #[deserr(default)]
    query: Option<String>,
    #[deserr(default = 20)]
    limit: usize,
}

let data = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "limit": 4 }),
)
.unwrap();
assert_eq!(data, Search { query: Some(String::from("doggo")), limit: 4 });

let data = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo" }),
)
.unwrap();
assert_eq!(data, Search { query: Some(String::from("doggo")), limit: 20 });
```

#### `skip`

Allows you to skip the deserialization of a field.
It won't show up in the list of fields generated by `deny_unknown_fields` or in the

> `UnknowKey` variant of the `ErrorKind` type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`UnknownKey` variant of the `ErrorKind` type.
```

```rust
use deserr::{DeserializeFromValue, deserialize};
use deserr::serde_json::JsonError;
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
struct Search {
    query: String,
    // A field can be skipped if it implements `Default`.

>     #[deserr(skip)]

Reviewer: or if the `default` field attribute is present

Reviewer: but actually... and it is not related to this review... shouldn't we always require `default` in combination with `skip`?

Author: Huum, I don't know. 
It feels a bit redundant to me

    hidden: usize,
}

let data = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo" }),
)
.unwrap();
assert_eq!(data, Search { query: String::from("doggo"), hidden: 0 });

// if you try to specify the field, it is ignored
let data = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "hidden": 2 }),
)
.unwrap();
assert_eq!(data, Search { query: String::from("doggo"), hidden: 0 });

// Here, we're going to see how skip interacts with `deny_unknown_fields`

> #[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]

Reviewer: this is all excellent

#[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
struct Search2 {
    query: String,
    #[deserr(default, map = add_one)]
    limit: usize,
}

let data = deserialize::<Search2, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo" }),
)
.unwrap();
// As we can see, the `map` attribute is applied AFTER the `default`.
assert_eq!(data, Search2 { query: String::from("doggo"), limit: 1 });
```

#### `missing_field_error`

Gives you the opportunity to customize the error message if this specific field
if missing.

```rust
use deserr::{DeserializeFromValue, DeserializeError, ValuePointerRef, ErrorKind, deserialize};
use deserr::serde_json::JsonError;
use serde_json::json;
use std::convert::Infallible;

#[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
struct Search {
    #[deserr(missing_field_error = missing_query_field)]
    query: String,
    limit: usize,
}

fn missing_query_field<E: DeserializeError>(_field_name: &str, location: ValuePointerRef) -> E {
    deserr::take_result_content(E::error::<Infallible>(
        None,
        ErrorKind::Unexpected {
            msg: String::from("I really need the query field, please give it to me uwu"),
        },
        location,
    ))

> }

Reviewer: I would really like at least one example where a custom function provided by the user returns a non-generic type. Maybe we can add one *after* the `error` container/field attribute is explained. Maybe also as an example for the `MergeWithError` trait?

Author: Yep that's true, it would be nice to show how to use the `MergeWithError` trait

)
.unwrap_err();
assert_eq!(error.to_string(), "I really need the query field, please give it to me uwu at ``.");
```

#### `error`

Customize the error type that can be returned when deserializing this structure
instead of keeping it generic.

```rust
use deserr::{DeserializeFromValue, DeserializeError, ValuePointerRef, ErrorKind, deserialize};
use deserr::serde_json::JsonError;
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
#[deserr(error = JsonError)]
struct Search {
    query: String,
    limit: usize,
}

// As we can see, rust is able to infer the error type.
let data = deserialize::<Search, _, _>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "limit": 1 }),
)
.unwrap();
assert_eq!(data, Search { query: String::from("doggo"), limit: 1 });
```

It can also be used as a field attribute;

```rust
use deserr::{DeserializeFromValue, DeserializeError, ValuePointerRef, ErrorKind, deserialize};
use deserr::serde_json::JsonError;
use serde_json::json;

// Since the error returned by the `Search` structure needs to implements `MergeWithError<JsonError>`
// we also need to specify the `error` attribute as a `JsonError`. But as you will see later there are

> // other solutions.

Reviewer: these examples/explanations of `MergeWithError` are good and necessary :)

// Now instead of constraining the final error type it stays generic if it's able to accumulate with
// with a `JsonError`.
#[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
#[deserr(where_predicate = __Deserr_E: MergeWithError<JsonError>, where_predicate = A: DeserializeFromValue<JsonError>)]
struct Search<A> {
    #[deserr(error = JsonError)]
    query: A,
    limit: usize,
}
```

#### `needs_predicate`

Automatically adds `where_predicate = FieldType: DeserializeFromValue<ErrType>` for each field with this attribute.

```rust
use deserr::{DeserializeFromValue, DeserializeError, MergeWithError, deserialize};
use deserr::serde_json::JsonError;
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
struct Search<A> {
    #[deserr(needs_predicate)]
    query: A,
    limit: usize,
}
```

Is strictly equivalent to the following:

```rust
use deserr::{DeserializeFromValue, DeserializeError, MergeWithError, deserialize};
use deserr::serde_json::JsonError;
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(DeserializeFromValue, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
#[deserr(where_predicate = A: DeserializeFromValue<__Deserr_E>)]
struct Search<A> {
    query: A,
    limit: usize,
}
```

> ### Comparison with serde

Reviewer: Could we add somewhere that we don't have a derive macro for tuple structs as well?

Since deserr needs to first deserialize the payload into a generic `Value` that allocates
a lot of memory before creating your structure, it's a lot slower than serde.

For example, at meilisearch for our search route, in case of a valid payload, we observed a 400% slowdown (4 times slower).
That made our search request deserialize in 2us instead of 500ns.
This is fast enough for most use cases but could be an issue if most of your time is spent deserializing.

#### Container attributes

| features            | serde | deserr | note |
|---------------------|-------|--------|------|
| rename              |  yes  |  no    |      |
| rename_all          |  yes  |  yes   |      |

> | deny_unknown_fields |  yes  |  yes   | With deserr you can call a custom function when an unknow field is encountered |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| deny_unknown_fields |  yes  |  yes   | With deserr you can call a custom function when an unknown field is encountered |
```

| tag                 |  yes  |  yes   |      |
| tag+content         |  yes  |  no    |      |
| untagged            |  yes  |  no    | it's only supported for unit enums |
| bound               |  yes  |  no    | Can be emulated with `where_predicate` |
| default             |  yes  |  no    |      |
| remote              |  yes  |  no    |      |
| transparent         |  yes  |  no    |      |
| from                |  yes  |  no    |      |

> | try_from            |  yes  |  yes   | But it's wrongly called `from` |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| try_from            |  yes  |  yes   | But it's wrongly called `from` |
```

is there a reason we could state for this?

Author: I wrote it like that because it's the case. But I plan to fix this before the next release and provide a `try_from` + a `from`

Reviewer 3: maybe an easy way out would be to open an issue and reference it in the README?

"Mistakenly called `from`, see #xxx"

| error               |  no   |  yes   | Specify the error type that should be used while deserializing this field |

### Feature flags

#### `serde-json`

Import [`serde_json`](https://crates.io/crates/serde_json) and provide;
- An implementation of `deserr::IntoValue` for `serde_json::Value` which make it easy to use both crate together.
- A default implementation of the `JsonError` type that provide the best generic error messages possible.

#### `serde-cs`
Import [`serde-cs`](https://crates.io/crates/serde-cs) and provide;
- An implementation of `DeserializeFromValue` for `serde_cs::CS<R>`.

#### `actix-web`
Import [`actix-web`](https://crates.io/crates/actix-web) and [`futures`](https://crates.io/crates/futures) and provide;
- An implementation of a json actix-web extractor if used with the `serde-json` feature.
- An implementation of `ResponseError` for the `JsonError` type if used with the `serde-json` feature.

### FAQ

#### But why?
At meilisearch, we wanted to customize the error code we return when we fail
the deserialization of a specific field.
Some error messages were also not clear at all and impossible to edit.

#### What about the maintenance?

> We're already using deserr in production at meilisearch; thus, I can guarantee you

Reviewer 3: it might be unclear to a reader who the first person might be here

maybe use plural first person?

also, "a long time" is subjective, so maybe we should only keep the idea that deserr is used in prod at Meilisearch and so maintained?

we'll maintain it for a long time.

> #### Where can I see more example of usage of this crate?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Where can I see more examples of usage of this crate?
```

Currently, you can read our examples in the `examples` directory of this repository.
You can also look at our integration test; each attribute has a simple-to-read test.

And obviously, you can read the code of meilisearch where deserr is used on all our
routes.

#### My question is not listed
Please, if you think there is a bug in this lib or would like a new feature,
open an issue or a discussion.

> If you would like to chat more directly with me, you can join us on discord

Reviewer 3: first person here might be unclear. We should either specify, or use first person plural ("to chat more directly with us")

> at https://discord.com/invite/meilisearch

Reviewer: eyy nice

Author: noice

}
```

### Supported features

#### `rename_all`

Rename all the fields of the struct according to the given case convention.
The possible values are `lowercase`, `camelCase`.
If you need more case conventions, please open an issue; adding more is trivial.

```rust
use deserr::{Deserr, deserialize, JsonError};
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(Deserr, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
#[deserr(rename_all = camelCase)]
struct Search {
    query: String,
    attributes_to_retrieve: Vec<String>,
}

let data = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(

>     json!({ "query": "doggo", "attributesToRetrieve": ["age", "name"] }),

Reviewer: Could we have a small comment above explaining the generic parameters?
1. The type to deserialise to
2. The format of the data (in this case, json, inferred)
3. The type of the error if it fails to deserialise

)
.unwrap();

assert_eq!(data, Search {
    query: String::from("doggo"),
    attributes_to_retrieve: vec![String::from("age"), String::from("name")],
});
```

#### `deny_unknown_fields`

Throw an error when encountering unknown fields.
When this attribute is absent, unknown fields are ignored by default.

```rust
use deserr::{Deserr, deserialize, JsonError};
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(Deserr, Debug)]
#[deserr(deny_unknown_fields)]
struct Search {
    query: String,
}

let err = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "doggo": "bork" }),
)
.unwrap_err();

assert_eq!(err.to_string(), "Unknown field `doggo`: expected one of `query`");

> ```

Reviewer: Future improvement: don't say `one of` when there is only one accepted field?

It is also possible to provide a custom function to handle the error.

```rust
use deserr::{Deserr, deserialize, ErrorKind, DeserializeError, ValuePointerRef, take_cf_content, JsonError};
use std::convert::Infallible;
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(Deserr, Debug)]
#[deserr(deny_unknown_fields = unknown_fields_search)]
struct Search {
    query: String,
}

fn unknown_fields_search<E: DeserializeError>(
    field: &str,
    accepted: &[&str],
    location: ValuePointerRef,
) -> E {
    match field {
        "doggo" => take_cf_content(E::error::<Infallible>(

>                 None,

Reviewer: `take_cf_content` may scare some users. Could we add a comment explaining it?
Something like:

> `E::error` returns a `ControlFlow<E, E>`, which returns the error and indicates whether we should keep accumulating errors or not. However, here we simply want to retrieve the error's value. This is what `take_cf_content` does.

BUT! I think the proper thing to do instead might be to change the signature of this function to return a `ControlFlow` too.

Author: Huuum I’m not sure the function should return a ControlFlow instead of letting the MergeWithError take that decision 🤔 

I added a comment here + in the first code block so most people should understand what `take_cf_content` is doing 👍

                ErrorKind::Unexpected {
                    msg: String::from("can I pet the doggo? uwu")
                },
                location,
            )),
        _ => take_cf_content(E::error::<Infallible>(
            None,
            deserr::ErrorKind::UnknownKey { key: field, accepted },
            location,
        )),
    }
}

let err = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "doggo": "bork" }),
)
.unwrap_err();

assert_eq!(err.to_string(), "Invalid value: can I pet the doggo? uwu");

let err = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "catto": "jorts" }),
)
.unwrap_err();

assert_eq!(err.to_string(), "Unknown field `catto`: expected one of `query`");

```

#### `tag`

Externally tag an enum.

> 

Reviewer: Can we say here what the default is, what does an internal tag look like?

```rust
use deserr::{Deserr, deserialize, JsonError};
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(Deserr, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
struct Search {
    query: Query,
}

#[derive(Deserr, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
#[deserr(tag = "type")]
enum Query {
    Single {
        search: String,
    },
    Multi {
        searches: Vec<String>,
    }
}

let data = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": { "type": "Single", "search": "bork" } }),
)
.unwrap();
assert_eq!(data, Search {
    query: Query::Single {
        search: String::from("bork"),
    },
});
```

#### `try_from`

Try deserializing a type from a function instead of a `Value`.
You need to provide the following information;

> 1. The input type of the function (here `&String`)

Reviewer: Can we say somewhere that `deserr` will first deserialise the field to the given type, using its `Deserr<E>` implementation? The point being that we are not limited to `basic` types such as `String` and that we are still in control of the returned errors.

2. The path of the function (here, we're simply using the std `FromStr` implementation)
3. The error type that this function can return (here `Infallible`)

##### It can be used as a container attribute

```rust
use deserr::{Deserr, deserialize, JsonError};
use serde_json::json;
use std::convert::Infallible;
use std::str::FromStr;

#[derive(Deserr, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
#[deserr(try_from(&String) = FromStr::from_str -> Infallible)]
enum Wildcard {

>     Wildcard,

Reviewer: nice nice nice :)
This is hard to do with serde.

struct Search {
    query: String,
    // A field can be skipped if it implements `Default` or if the `default` attribute is specified.
    #[deserr(skip)]
    hidden: usize,
}

let data = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo" }),
)
.unwrap();
assert_eq!(data, Search { query: String::from("doggo"), hidden: 0 });

// if you try to specify the field, it is ignored
let data = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "hidden": 2 }),
)
.unwrap();
assert_eq!(data, Search { query: String::from("doggo"), hidden: 0 });

// Here, we're going to see how skip interacts with `deny_unknown_fields`

#[derive(Deserr, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
#[deserr(deny_unknown_fields)]
struct Search2 {
    query: String,
    // A field can be skipped if it implements `Default`.
    #[deserr(skip)]
    hidden: usize,
}

let error = deserialize::<Search2, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "hidden": 1 }),
)
.unwrap_err();
// NOTE: `hidden` isn't in the list of expected fields + `hidden` is effectively considered as a non-existing field.
assert_eq!(error.to_string(), "Unknown field `hidden`: expected one of `query`");
```

> #### `map`

Reviewer: should be renamed `from` now, right?

Author: No! Because map don't update the type!

Map a field **after** it has been deserialized.

```rust
use deserr::{Deserr, deserialize, JsonError};
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(Deserr, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
struct Search {
    query: String,
    #[deserr(map = add_one)]
    limit: usize,
}

fn add_one(n: usize) -> usize {
    n.saturating_add(1)
}

let data = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "limit": 0 }),
)
.unwrap();
assert_eq!(data, Search { query: String::from("doggo"), limit: 1 });

// Let's see how `map` interacts with the `default` attributes.
#[derive(Deserr, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
struct Search2 {
    query: String,
    #[deserr(default, map = add_one)]
    limit: usize,
}

let data = deserialize::<Search2, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo" }),
)
.unwrap();
// As we can see, the `map` attribute is applied AFTER the `default`.
assert_eq!(data, Search2 { query: String::from("doggo"), limit: 1 });
```

#### `missing_field_error`

Gives you the opportunity to customize the error message if this specific field

> if missing.

Reviewer: typo: should be `is missing`

    ))
}

let error = deserialize::<Search, _, JsonError>(
    json!({ "limit": 0 }),
)
.unwrap_err();
assert_eq!(error.to_string(), "Invalid value: I really need the query field, please give it to me uwu");
```

#### `error`

Customize the error type that can be returned when deserializing this structure
instead of keeping it generic.

```rust
use deserr::{Deserr, DeserializeError, ValuePointerRef, ErrorKind, deserialize, JsonError};
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(Deserr, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
#[deserr(error = JsonError)]
struct Search {
    query: String,
    limit: usize,
}

// As we can see, rust is able to infer the error type.
let data = deserialize::<Search, _, _>(
    json!({ "query": "doggo", "limit": 1 }),
)
.unwrap();
assert_eq!(data, Search { query: String::from("doggo"), limit: 1 });
```

It can also be used as a field attribute;

```rust
use deserr::{Deserr, DeserializeError, ValuePointerRef, ErrorKind, deserialize, JsonError};
use serde_json::json;

// Since the error returned by the `Search` structure needs to implements `MergeWithError<JsonError>`
// we also need to specify the `error` attribute as a `JsonError`. But as you will see later there are

> // other solutions.

Reviewer: Can we use another error type than `JsonError` for the error field attribute of `query`? Because here `error = JsonError` has no effect at all. Instead, we could do write something like:
```rust
#[deserr(error = JsonError)]
struct Search<A> {
    #[deserr(error = MyError)] // Note that `JsonError` must implement `MergeWithError<MyError>`
    query: A,
```

Reviewer: I get that this may be difficult because the next examples build on this one. So don't worry too much about it :)

Author: I wrote a huge example at the start showing how to use various attributes and the `MergeWithError`. It should be enough!

struct Search<A> {
    #[deserr(error = JsonError)]
    query: A,
    limit: usize,
}
```

#### `needs_predicate`

Automatically adds `where_predicate = FieldType: Deserr<ErrType>` for each field with this attribute.

```rust
use deserr::{Deserr, DeserializeError, MergeWithError, deserialize, JsonError};
use serde_json::json;

#[derive(Deserr, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
struct Search<A> {
    #[deserr(needs_predicate)]
    query: A,
    limit: usize,
}
```

Is strictly equivalent to the following:

```rust
use deserr::{Deserr, DeserializeError, MergeWithError, deserialize, JsonError};
use serde_json::json;

// `__Deserr_E` represents the Error returned by the generated `Deserr` implementation.
#[derive(Deserr, Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
#[deserr(where_predicate = A: Deserr<__Deserr_E>)]
struct Search<A> {
    query: A,
    limit: usize,
}
```

### Comparison with serde

Since deserr needs to first deserialize the payload into a generic `Value` that allocates
a lot of memory before creating your structure, it's a lot slower than serde.

For example, at meilisearch for our search route, in case of a valid payload, we observed a 400% slowdown (4 times slower).

> That made our search request deserialize in 2us instead of 500ns.

Reviewer: Now for my most pedantic comment ever: can we write 2µs instead?

This is fast enough for most use cases but could be an issue if most of your time is spent deserializing.

#### Datastructure support

| datastructure       | serde | deserr | note |
|---------------------|-------|--------|------|
| Struct              |  yes  |  yes   |      |
| Tuple struct        |  yes  |  no    |      |
| Untagged Enum       |  yes  |  no    |      |
| Untagged unit Enum  |  yes  |  yes   |      |
| Tagged Enum         |  yes  |  yes   |      |

#### Container attributes

| features            | serde | deserr | note |
|---------------------|-------|--------|------|
| rename              |  yes  |  no    |      |
| rename_all          |  yes  |  yes   |      |
| deny_unknown_fields |  yes  |  yes   | With deserr you can call a custom function when an unknown field is encountered |
| tag                 |  yes  |  yes   |      |
| tag+content         |  yes  |  no    |      |
| untagged            |  yes  |  no    | it's only supported for unit enums |
| bound               |  yes  |  no    | Can be emulated with `where_predicate` |

> | default             |  yes  |  no    |      |

Reviewer: `No` for deserr, but mostly `not applicable` or `not needed`, right? Because we have made the choice to force the use of the `default` field attribute.

Author: I don’t think that’s related?
We could let people have a `default` container attribute so you don’t have to specify it as a field attribute right?

| remote              |  yes  |  no    |      |
| transparent         |  yes  |  no    |      |
| from                |  yes  |  no    |      |
| try_from            |  yes  |  yes   |      |
| into                |  yes  |  no    |      |
| crate               |  yes  |  no    |      |
| validate            |  no   |  yes   | Allows you to validate the content of struct **after** it has been deserialized |
| error               |  no   |  yes   | Specify the error type that should be used while deserializing this structure |
| where_predicate     |  no   |  yes   | Let you add where clauses to the generated `Deserr` implementation |

#### Field attributes

| features            | serde | deserr | note |
|---------------------|-------|--------|------|
| rename              |  yes  |  no    |      |
| alias               |  yes  |  no    |      |
| default             |  yes  |  yes   |      |
| flatten             |  yes  |  no    | serde doesn't support flattening + denying unknown field |
| skip                |  yes  |  yes   |      |

> | deserialize_with    |  yes  |  no    | But it's kinda emulated with `from` |

Reviewer: Do you mean `map` or `try_from`, or does `from` really exist now?
Also, I think `kinda emulated` undersells it. It is just as powerful as `deserialize_with`.

Author: Oh yeah I mean `try_from` thanks

| with                |  yes  |  no    |      |
| borrow              |  yes  |  no    |      |

> | bound               |  yes  |  no    |      |

Reviewer: For `borrow`: can we say that `deserr` does not support types with references? I haven't actually checked, but I can't see how it would work.
